So let's take a closer look at this rest and graph cool thing.
How do these AP eyes look like in detail.
Well as I mentioned we still have that client server combination and the server uses note express and
then we talk to among OTB database from that note express server the client of course uses react.
Now how does such a request look like which we send to the node express server if that server is built
as a rest api.
Well as I mentioned it's a combination of a specific you are L or specifically the path which is the
thing after the domain because the domain of course will always be the same.
Your page dot com for example is the domain.
But the thing they're after slash products slash nothing slash new slash user whatever it is that is
the path.
And that combined with a specific HDD if you work triggers a specific action at least if we support
that path we're combination on the server for example we could be sending a post request with the Post
HDD if he were to to slash post you or L or a get request to slash posts or a get request to slash post
slash and then some dynamic Pop segment which node express all the supports so it would be for example
could have different ideas of posts which are parts of our incoming requests these are our so-called
API end points and as I mentioned multiple times it's up to us the developer of the node express rest
api to decide which endpoints we want to support and then upon getting a request on such a endpoint
we run some service ad logic to do whatever we want to do for example to reach out to the database and
then store data there get data from there and so on.
Now when it comes to these HBP methods post and get might be methods or words you already know but there's
more than just getting post.
Of course we have get which we typically use to get data or get a resource from the server and we have
post to post data to a server.
So to send data data and then create new data a new object new resources on the server.
But we got more than that.
We also got put which we typically use to create or override a resource patch which we use to update
an existing resource on a server delete to delete a resource and all actually options which we won't
send on ourselves but which the browser automatically attaches for certain requests which the browser
then uses to find out if the request we actually want to send is supported.
I will come back to that later.
Now what's really important to understand here because it's some common misconception is that just because
you send a post request you don't actually store something in that database automatically.
As I mentioned it's up to you the developer of the API to decide what you want to do which code you
want to execute for which were path combination and you typically want to map the words in a way that's
logical.
So you want to create data when a post request is received.
You want to delete data when a delete request is received but theoretically you could also return data
so you could get data upon a delete request or return data up on a put request or return date up on
a post request.
Dad would just not be logical and therefore you want to avoid it.
But it's really important to understand that the word path combination alone does not dictate what happens
on the server that is up to the logic you wrote there for different work path combinations.
So that's the rest.
Now what about graph Q El when we have a look at that same picture for graph to we have the same general
logic and that's important to understand.
We sent that request to the node express app then.
But how does this look like now.
As I mentioned with graph Q Well there aren't multiple endpoints.
There is one single endpoint and that typically is a post request on some path of your choice.
Often the path is slash graph jewel but that's not a must use now.
The trick here is that this request since it's a post request has a request body and that request body
contains a query expression written in a standardised graph QoL query language which is then passed
by your node express server and if you then wrote code to support that specific expression which will
send you can then well use the data which is part of that expressions on to store data or to get data
and so on the query which could be in the post request body typically looks something like this.
We describe the operation we want to perform alternatives to query which we typically use to get data
would be mutation to add or change data or subscription to set up a live subscription.
We then have an identifier of our choice which we all could call and point data for and then the data.
We for example want to request or we want to send.
Now I do have a free serious on how to build basically a simple Marine application with a graphical
backend and attached you find a link where you learn how to build such a graph.
Back and from scratch.
So that might also be interesting for you.
If you want to learn more about graft fuel in this course when we compare Rast to graph cool we will
go with the rest.
And here's why.
The rest api approach uses this path HP method combination to identify resources where actions on a
server and that's very intuitive and very easy to learn.
Such an API is stateless and decoupled from any front end which means a rest api you build cannot just
be used with your react single page application.
Any client could talk to it.
So if you later build a mobile application with ISIS or Android you could talk to that same API.
Because the API is totally separated from the front end which is the cool thing about this API approach
you can reuse the API and just attach different from events.
One of the reasons why such API eyes are so popular these days.
Now we will use the rest api in this course because it's the most common type of API you'll see a lot
of API is built in that way out there in the wild because it's easy to use easy to learn easy to document
and very intuitive in the end.
Now a graph to El API does not use the path HBP method as you'll learn but instead such a clear expression
using a certain very language to identify a resource in action.
And just like the rest api.
It's also stateless and decoupled so just as with the rest api you can attach any client to that API
which is great but the reason why we won't use it is that despite graphical being very popular and very
useful and powerful you need to learn that extract for real language which is some extra effort in which
not everyone wants to do.
In addition out there in the wild you see way more rest api used and graph queue LAPD so I find it more
important to learn that nonetheless as I mentioned attached you find a link to a free series I created
in the past where we also build a graph que el API and actually also what Express and react application
that works with it for free in a complete serious.
So this might be interesting to you if you want to learn more about that in this course will build a
rest api from scratch because it is so important and so powerful and we will build it from the ground
up so that you definitely at everything that's to it.